---
layout: post
title: "CSE 167 WI24 Homework 4"
date: 2024-03-19
published: false
---

## Introduction

Hello instructors! What follows is some quick documentation of my somewhat trivial implementation of bounding boxes as an acceleration structure for my ray tracer in HW4.

## Details

The bounding box is defined by a min corner and a max corner in the `BoundingBox` struct in `bbox.h`. These can be viewed as points with smallest and largest x, y, z-coordinates or the bottom-front-left and top-back-right corners. Computing the bounding box for a sphere involves adding and subtracting the radius component-wise from the center point. Comparing the vertices and taking the max and min of these for each coordinate gives the min corner and max corners.

```
struct BoundingBox {
	vec3 bounds[2]; // min/max corners

	BoundingBox() : bounds() {
		bounds[0] = vec3(-INFINITY);
		bounds[1] = vec3(INFINITY);
	}
};
```

Before looping over each pixel, the main program precomputes the bounding boxes for all opjects in the scene and stores each box within the `Object` on the stack. During ray-tracing, we intersect the bounding box of each object first. Then, if there is an intersection, we proceed with the ray-sphere or ray-triangle intersection test which is presumed to be more costly.

The ray-box intersection solves for the intersection parameter `t` using `t = (bounds - ray_origin)/ray_direction`,  obtained from equating the parametric form of the ray with the min bound, for each coordinate. The actual implementation makes a few optimizations like precomputing `1/ray_direction`.

## Results

We observed a ~3s improvement for rendering scene 6 using bounding-boxes and ~6s improvement for scene 5. This includes time for any pre-computation outside of ray-tracing loop and doing I/O. The full command prompt transcripts are included in the HW4 submission .zip as `hw4-transcript*.txt`

Some improvements could definitely be made. It would be nice if I had time to conduct multiple trials and compare average times, compute some other statistics like rays per second, etc. I also think that a more substantial acceleration structure (ex. using a space-partitioning scheme like octrees) would result in larger improvements than what I observed.
